CHAPTER I

SHARP EYES SEES SOMETHING


Away up in the North Woods lived a family of foxes. They had big, bushy
tails, like a dust brush, and they wore furry coats. Some of these
furry coats were of a reddish-yellow color, and some of them a sort of
gray. The foxes had long sharp noses and sharp teeth, and they were
very sly and cunning, as they had need to be.

For a fox is not strong, like a lion or a tiger, and to get his food he
must be quick and sly, and steal up when no one sees him, to get a fat
duck or a chicken from the farmyard.

Now in this family of foxes, about which I am going to tell you, there
was the father and mother, and three little ones. Mr. and Mrs. Fox were
well grown, fleet of foot, and they could both see and smell danger a
long way off, just as they could see and smell when they were near
some farmer’s house, where they might get a chicken or a duck.

The home of the foxes was in a hollow log, in the deepest and darkest
part of the North Woods, and in this hollow log the three little foxes
lived. They were named Sharp Eyes, Twinkle and Winkle.

Sharp Eyes was the oldest of the children, though they were all nearly
the same age. The reason he was called Sharp Eyes was because he had
such sharp, sparkling eyes, which seemed to look right through the
bushes and trees at anything he wanted to find.

Twinkle, who was Sharp Eyes’ brother, was so called because when he ran
downhill or uphill his feet seemed to twinkle in and out like flashes
of light.

Winkle, who was Sharp Eyes’ sister, was so called because she seemed to
winkle and blinkle her eyes, sleepy-like, when she looked at anything.

So Sharp Eyes, Twinkle and Winkle lived with their father and mother
in the hollow log in the big woods. The little foxes, at first, stayed
very close to the log. In fact, they did not go outside it until they
were pretty well grown, and about the size of puppy dogs. Each day
their father and mother would crawl out of the log, look carefully
around to make sure there were no dogs, hunters, or other dangers
near, sniff the air to see if they could smell anything that might harm
them or their little ones, and then one or the other would slink slyly
away through the woods, to look for something to eat, not only for
themselves, but to bring home to the little foxes.

One day when Mr. Fox had come home with a plump partridge and the
little foxes were having a good dinner, Sharp Eyes asked:

“Mother, where did my father get this fine meat for us to eat?”

“He caught it in the woods.”

Of course the Fox family did not speak the same kind of language that
you boys and girls use. They talked in their own language, which they
could understand as well as you can understand one another. But so
that you may know what the foxes said among themselves, and what they
thought, I have put their sayings into your kind of words.

Foxes, like other animals, talk with whispers, sniffles, snuffles,
whines, barks and howls, and it is very hard to understand them unless
you know their language, as I do. But, once you do, it is as easy to
know what they say as if you heard the boy on your next street call:

“Come on, spin tops!”

So now you’ll understand what I mean when I say a fox “says” this,
that, or the other.

“Where did my father get this fine meat?” asked Sharp Eyes, and when
his mother told him Mr. Fox caught it in the woods, the little fox, as
he gnawed a bone, smacked his lips and asked:

“But _how_ did he get it?”

“I’ll tell you, little Sharp Eyes,” said Mr. Fox. “And you listen also,
Twinkle and Winkle. For you must soon learn to catch your own dinners
and suppers, as well as breakfasts.”

So the little foxes listened while their father told them how to make a
living in the woods, where there are no stores at which animals can buy
what they want to eat.

“I was coming along under the trees,” said Mr. Fox, “and I was looking
on both sides of me for something to bring home to your mother and you
to eat. Up to then I had not caught anything. I sprang after a muskrat,
but it jumped into the brook and got away from me. Then I tried to
creep softly up behind a young wild turkey in the woods, but he heard
me and flew away.

“So I was beginning to think I’d never get a meal for my family, and I
knew you were hungry, when, all at once, I saw this partridge. I walked
as softly as I knew how over the leaves and sticks in the woods, and,
without his hearing me, I got so close to the bird that I could jump
on him, pin him down with my feet, and catch him in my sharp teeth.
Then I brought him home to you. That’s how I got your dinner, Sharp
Eyes.”

“And a very good dinner it is, too,” said Mrs. Fox. “You animal
children ought to be very glad you have such a smart father. It is not
every fox that can catch a partridge.”

“Oh, well, we mustn’t be proud,” said Mr. Fox, as, with his tail, he
brushed smooth a place inside the log, where he could lie down. “Our
children will soon be grown, and they will learn how to catch wild
turkeys, partridges, quail and muskrats for themselves.”

“How do you catch wild things in the woods?” asked Sharp Eyes.

“Yes, tell us, so we may learn,” begged Twinkle.

“I will,” answered Mr. Fox. “It is time you little fox puppies learned
to hunt for yourselves. You are old enough. After you have had a nap
we will go outside the log house, and your mother and I will give you
lessons.”

So the little foxes went to sleep after their meal, as nearly all wild
animals do, and as even your cat and dog do after they have eaten. They
always seem to feel sleepy after eating. And when Sharp Eyes, Twinkle
and Winkle awakened after their nap, they felt fine and fresh, and
felt like jumping around.

In fact, Sharp Eyes felt so fresh that he cuffed his brother on the ear
with his paw.

“Ma, make Sharp Eyes stop!” cried Twinkle, in fox language of course.

“Oh, I wasn’t doing anything!” said Sharp Eyes.

“Yes he was, too!” barked Sister Winkle. “And now he’s tickling me!”

“I guess it’s time I gave you little foxes some lessons in
how-to-catch-things,” said Mr. Fox, as he stretched himself, for he,
too, had been sleeping. “You are so full of life that you are getting
into mischief. Come out, all of you, and I’ll show you how I caught the
partridge.”

Sharp Eyes would have rushed out of the log at once, but his mother
held him back with her paw, saying:

“Wait! Let your father take a look first, to see that there is no
danger. You must always be careful in going out of your house, whether
it is a hole under the rocks or a hollow log or a stump, to look for
danger. Watch your father!”

Mr. Fox stuck his nose out of the log a little way and sniffed the air.
Then he stuck it out a little farther. Next he looked around with his
bright eyes.

[Illustration: “He pretended a piece of wood was the partridge he was
after.”]

“Is everything all right?” asked Mrs. Fox.

“Everything is all right,” said Mr. Fox.

So out in front of the hollow-log house, where there was a smooth,
level place, went Mr. Fox and the three little foxes. Mrs. Fox stayed
in the log to shake up the dried leaves that made the beds. That was
all the housekeeping work she had to do, for foxes, like most animals,
live a very simple life.

“Now this is how I crept softly up behind the partridge,” said Mr. Fox,
as he went along, almost on his tiptoes, as you might say. “You must be
careful not to step on a stick so it breaks and makes a noise,” he told
the little foxes; “and do not rustle the dried leaves. For partridges
and other wild birds and all woodland creatures that we have to eat,
are very shy, and fly off or run away at the least noise. You see, we
have not sharp claws, like a cat, with which to grasp the things we
catch. We have to pin them down with our paws, as a dog does, or get
them in our sharp teeth, and we have to be very close to them before
they see us, so we can do that.”

So Mr. Fox showed his little ones how to creep along softly over
the sticks, stones and leaves. He pretended a piece of wood was the
partridge he was after, and, when he got close enough, he gave a jump
and came down on top of it, quickly getting it in his mouth.

“That’s the way I would have done it if it had been a real bird,” said
Mr. Fox. “Now you try, Sharp Eyes, and let us see how you would do it.”

So the little fox boy tried, and so did his brother and his sister, and
for many days after that their father or their mother gave them hunting
lessons outside the hollow log.

After a while Sharp Eyes, Twinkle, and Winkle learned to be very good
jumpers, and they could move over a bit of ground, covered with sticks,
stones and leaves, so softly that you never would have heard them.

“Now come out in the woods, and let us see if you can be as quiet when
there is something real to catch, instead of the make-believe birds and
rats, that are really only pieces of wood,” said Mr. Fox. For, up to
this time, he had let the fox children practise on bits of bark, clumps
of grass, or a stone, pretending they were grouse or partridges.

Through the woods went the family, Mr. Fox in front, then Sharp Eyes,
Twinkle and Winkle, and Mrs. Fox behind them all. The two old foxes
were looking out for danger, you see.

All at once Mr. Fox stopped, and, speaking in an animal whisper, said:

“Here is a mouse just in front of me, Sharp Eyes. He does not see me
yet. Come and see if you can get it!”

Up came Sharp Eyes very, very softly. He saw a big wood mouse under the
roots of a tree. The mouse was gnawing the soft bark.

“Now go softly,” said Mr. Fox.

Sharp Eyes tried to, but alas! he stepped on a dried stick, which broke
with a crack. The mouse heard it and started to jump down into his
burrow under the earth.

“No, you don’t!” cried Mr. Fox, and he made a big jump and caught the
mouse just in time.

“That’s the way to do it!” barked Mrs. Fox. “The mouse would have
gotten away from you, Sharp Eyes.”

“I’m sorry,” replied the little fox boy slowly and sadly.

“Never mind,” said his father. “You’ll do better the next time.”

But it was some days before the little foxes learned to catch anything.

“Oh, shall we ever learn?” asked Twinkle.

“Of course you will,” said his mother. “When I was a young fox, like
you, I thought I’d never catch my first mouse. But I did.”

So Mr. and Mrs. Fox had to keep on catching the things the little
foxes ate, though each day Sharp Eyes, Twinkle and Winkle were getting
quicker and better.

But one day Mr. Fox came home without any dinner.

“What’s the matter?” asked Mrs. Fox. “Couldn’t you catch anything
to-day?”

“No,” answered Mr. Fox. “In fact, I didn’t see a thing. I’ve tramped
all over these woods, but not a bird or an animal could I see. Of
course I saw cows and horses in the farmers’ yards, but they are too
big for me to carry off.”

“Couldn’t you get a chicken or a duck?”

“I saw some ducks and chickens on one farm,” replied Mr. Fox, “but the
farmer, or one of his men, was near them all the while with a gun or a
club, and I dared not try to catch one. I’d have been caught or hurt
myself if I had. I’m sorry, but we’ll have no dinner to-day.”

Sharp Eyes and his brother and sister felt sad on hearing this. They
were very hungry.

“Couldn’t we all go out hunting together?” asked Sharp Eyes, after a
bit. “Maybe we could see something you could catch,” he said to his
father.

“Well, perhaps that would be a good plan,” replied Mr. Fox. “Come on,
we’ll all go out and see if we can find a meal.”

So out into the woods went the five foxes――the two large ones and the
three smaller ones. Slowly and carefully they went along, looking from
side to side, and sniffing the air for any sign of something to eat.

“There doesn’t seem to be anything,” said Mrs. Fox, with a hungry sigh.

“No,” answered Mr. Fox, “there doesn’t. I never saw the woods so scarce
of food.”

All of a sudden Sharp Eyes, who had gone a little way ahead, came
softly back.

“I see something!” he said. “Shall I try to get it for our dinner?”

“What is it? Where is it?” asked Mr. Fox eagerly. “I don’t see
anything,” and he looked as hard as he could through the bushes.

“Right over there, by the old stump,” said Sharp Eyes. “Don’t you see?
It’s a big chicken.”

Mr. Fox looked. Then he said:

“That isn’t a chicken! It’s a wild turkey! If we get that it will make
a fine meal for all of us! Sharp Eyes, you were rightly named. You saw
this turkey when neither your mother nor I could see it. It’s a good
thing you did. Now we’ll have a fine meal!”




CHAPTER II

SHARP EYES CATCHES SOMETHING


Slowly and carefully, making not the least sound, Mr. Fox began to
creep through the woods toward the wild turkey. The big bird was eating
some forest berries, and had his back toward the fox.

“Let me catch him!” whispered Sharp Eyes. “I saw him first, let me
creep up and jump on him!”

“No,” whispered his mother. “It is true you had very keen sight to
see the turkey, Sharp Eyes, and when you grow up you will be a smart
fox. But just now, when we are all so hungry, it would not do to let
that turkey get away from us. They can fly faster than you can run or
jump. Even your father will have hard work getting it. But he can do it
better than you.

“You saw the big bird first, Sharp Eyes. Now let your father get it for
us. Then we shall all have something to eat. The next wild turkey you
see you may catch for yourself.”

“All right,” said Sharp Eyes. So he carefully watched his father to
see how the old fox would go about it to catch the wild turkey.

Nearer and nearer crept Mr. Fox to the big bird, which was still eating
away, not hearing or seeing the danger that was so close to him. Mrs.
Fox and the three little foxes waited very anxiously indeed, for they
were very hungry.

“Oh, I hope he gets it!” whispered Twinkle.

“So do I,” said Sharp Eyes.

“It was awfully smart of you to see it,” murmured Winkle.

“Hush, children!” softly called Mrs. Fox. “Watch your father!”

Just then Mr. Fox made a jump for the turkey. Up in the air went Sharp
Eyes’ father, and down he came, right on the back of the big, wild bird.

“Gobble-obble-obble!” cried the turkey, and that was all he said. A
little later the fox family had a fine dinner, and they didn’t have to
wait for the turkey to be roasted, either. They ate it raw.

Of course it was too bad for the turkey, but animals must live, and if
one lives on the other that is the law of the woods. There is no need
of feeling sorry. The foxes had to eat the turkey, just as the turkey
had to eat grasshoppers.

“Oh, that was a fine meal!” cried Twinkle, when the turkey was all
gone, and nothing but the bones was left.

“Yes, and if it hadn’t been for Sharp Eyes we might not have had it,”
said Mrs. Fox.

“That’s right,” said Mr. Fox. “I looked and looked under the trees and
through the bushes, but I never saw that turkey. It took Sharp Eyes to
see it for us. His name is the right one if ever a name was.”

Of course Sharp Eyes felt very proud and happy on hearing this, just
as you children feel when you do anything that pleases your father and
mother.

“But I wish I could catch something myself,” said the little fox boy.

“Oh, you will, some day,” his mother answered. “You are young yet――you
have plenty of time to learn.”

After their turkey dinner the fox family went back to their home in the
hollow log and had a long sleep. And they did not need to hunt anything
more until the next day, for the turkey was a large one. Foxes or other
wild animals, hardly ever save anything over from one meal to the next.
They have no ice boxes or pantries. When they are hungry they go out
and get what they can to eat, and they don’t hunt for anything more
until they are hungry again.

Of course, by the next day, Sharp Eyes, his brother and sister, as
well as his father and mother, were hungry once more.

“I will go out and see what I can find,” said Mr. Fox. “The rest of you
stay here.”

“Can’t I come with you?” asked Sharp Eyes.

Mr. Fox seemed to think for a minute.

“Yes,” he answered, “I guess it will be a good thing for you to come
along. My eyes are getting old, and are not as good as they once were.
Yours are young and bright. You may see something I can’t. Come with
me, Sharp Eyes.”

“And us?”

“Well―― Well, no, Twinkle and Winkle. This isn’t a lesson in hunting. I
think, if I take only Sharp Eyes along, we’ll be able to get something
to eat sooner.”

So Sharp Eyes went hunting with his father, while Mrs. Fox remained at
home in the hollow log with Twinkle and Winkle.

“I hope we’ll see another wild turkey,” said Sharp Eyes, as he trotted
along beside his father across the meadow.

“Don’t expect such good luck,” answered the older fox. “If we get a
couple of wood mice, or perhaps a little duck that has paddled off down
stream away from the others, I shall be glad.”

So to the woods they went, looking for mice which live in hollow stumps
or in the ground under the roots of trees. But all the mice seemed to
be away that day. Not one could Sharp Eyes or his father see.

“Now we’ll go to the brook,” said the old fox. “Sometimes there are
little ducks there, who know no better than to swim too far from the
big ones, that, if I jump in among them, can make a loud quacking noise
and bring the farmer with his gun. Maybe we can steal up on a little
duck.”

So down to the brook went Sharp Eyes and his father. But though there
were ducks and geese in the water (for the brook was near a farm) not
one of the fowls was off by itself. They all kept together and not far
from them was a farmer plowing in a field.

“He may have a gun near him, or a club,” said Mr. Fox, “and with either
of those he could hurt us very much. We’ll not try to get a duck now.
We’ll have to go somewhere else for our dinner.”

“But where?” asked Sharp Eyes. “I am hungry, and I know my mother is,
and so are the others.”

“I know,” answered his father. “I am also hungry. We’ll go to the woods
once more. Maybe there’ll be some mice now.”

So back to the woods they went.

On all sides, among the trees and through the bushes, looked Mr. Fox
and Sharp Eyes. But no mice could they see. Nor did there seem to be
any partridges, quail or other wild birds. As for wild turkeys, not
even the gobble-obble of one could be heard.

“What shall we do?” asked Sharp Eyes.

“I’ll tell you,” his father answered. “There are two of us. If we keep
together we can be in only one place in the woods, but if you go one
way and I the other we can be in two places, and we’ll have a much
better chance to find something.”

“All right,” said Sharp Eyes. “I’ll go this way,” and with his paw he
sort of pointed down among some trees where the shadows were deep and
dark.

“It looks as though you could catch something there,” observed Mr. Fox.
“I’ll go the other way, and whichever of us first catches anything must
bark and howl. Then the other will know.”

“I’ll do it,” said Sharp Eyes.

So off he trotted by himself. It was the first time he had hunted
alone, and he felt a bit queer about it. Still he was a sly, cunning
chap, as are all fox creatures, and he wanted to show what he could do.

“I’ll get another turkey,” said Sharp Eyes to himself.

Through the woods he went, very softly and quietly, looking on all
sides, and sniffing the air to get a smell of something he might catch
as a dinner for himself and the rest of the fox family.

All at once Sharp Eyes saw something moving behind a bush. It made a
rustling sound.

“I wonder what that is,” thought the fox boy.

Once more he sniffed the air. The wind was blowing toward him from
whatever was in the bush, and the wind brought to the nose of the fox
boy a wonderful perfume.

“It smells like something good to eat!” thought Sharp Eyes.

There was another rustling in the bushes.

Then the fox boy saw some feathers shining in the sun.

“It must be another wild turkey,” said Sharp Eyes to himself. “Oh, I
wonder if I can jump on it as my father did! I’m going to try!”

As softly as he could, the fox boy crept up behind the bush. He heard
a scratching sound among the dried leaves. He saw more feathers, and
something red.

“That’s the funny red thing that hangs down under a turkey’s chin,”
said the fox boy to himself. “I am having good luck! Oh, if I can only
jump on that bird before he hears or sees me and flies away!”

Nearer and nearer he crept. He could see the big bird now. It did not
look exactly like the wild turkey.

“Maybe it’s a new and better kind,” thought Sharp Eyes. “If I get it
I’ll bark for my father to come and see what good hunting I can do!”

Nearer and nearer he crept. The big bird which was picking up something
from the ground under the bush, and scratching in the leaves, did not
seem to hear.

“Ah ha!” whispered Sharp Eyes to himself. “Now for a good dinner for
all of us!”

Through the air he jumped, and he landed with his front feet right on
the big bird’s back.

“Burr-r-r-r-r!” barked Sharp Eyes, almost like a dog.

“Cock-a-doodle-do!” crowed the big bird, and then it was very still.




CHAPTER III

SHARP EYES HEARS SOMETHING


“Ah ha!” cried Sharp Eyes in fox talk, “I have caught you, my fine wild
turkey!”

Then, with the big bird held tightly under his paws, the fox boy lifted
his nose high in the air and howled and barked. That was his way of
saying:

“Come and see what I have, Father! I’ve caught a fine wild turkey!”

Away off in the woods, where he was looking for something to eat, Mr.
Fox heard the call of Sharp Eyes.

“Ah, I wonder if he is hurt, in danger, or if he has something for
dinner,” said Mr. Fox to himself.

Mr. Fox listened carefully, and then by the difference in the howl and
bark, he could tell what Sharp Eyes was saying. It was this:

“I have caught something! I have caught something!”

“Ah, my little fox boy has had good luck,” said Mr. Fox. “Better luck
than I have had. I must go and see what he has caught!”

Not having found anything that he could take home for his family’s
dinner, Mr. Fox turned and ran quickly through the woods toward Sharp
Eyes. He could tell where his little fox son was by noticing the
direction from which his howls and barks came.

“What is it?” asked Mr. Fox as he came near.

“I have caught a big wild turkey,” answered Sharp Eyes, still keeping
the large bird between his paws.

“Ha! that is not a turkey,” said Mr. Fox, as he came near and saw what
Sharp Eyes had.

“No?” asked the little fox in surprise. “What is it then?”

“It’s a rooster,” said his father. “A great, big rooster that lives
down on the farm where the ducks are,” for there were farms near
the North Woods, though there were no cities. “Well do I know that
rooster,” went on Mr. Fox. “Many a time, when I have been creeping up
to get a chicken, he has seen me and crowed so loudly that the farmer
came out with a gun to drive me away. And so you have caught him, Sharp
Eyes!”

“Yes, but I thought he was a wild turkey like the one I saw before. I
never have seen a rooster.”

“He is as good as a wild turkey to eat,” went on Mr. Fox. “You have had
good luck. You have quick legs as well as sharp eyes. Now we shall not
be hungry.”

So Mr. Fox carried the big rooster home to the other foxes in the
hollow log. The bird would have been too heavy for Sharp Eyes, who was
not yet full grown.

“Oh, what a fine dinner!” said Mrs. Fox, when she saw the rooster. “Who
caught it?”

“Sharp Eyes did,” answered his father. “We ought to be quite proud of
him!”

“I am,” said the little fox boy’s mother.

Then they had a rooster dinner, and Twinkle and Winkle listened as
Sharp Eyes told how he had caught the fowl, thinking it was a wild
turkey.

“Though when it said ‘Cock-a-doodle-do!’ instead of ‘Gobble-obble-obble,’
I thought it was funny,” said the little fox boy.

“You are a real fox now――you can go out and catch things for yourself,”
said his father. “Now, Twinkle and Winkle, it is time you started in.
To-morrow let us see what you can do.”

So the next day the three little foxes started off together on a
hunting trip. At first they saw nothing, but, after a bit, they spied
some wood mice and each caught one.

“They are not as big as a rooster or a wild turkey,” said Sharp Eyes,
“but they will do for a start. We can’t catch big things every day.”

Twinkle and Winkle were quite delighted with the mice. They were the
first things they had caught, except some grasshoppers, and they felt a
little bit proud of themselves.

From then on the little foxes hunted every day. Twinkle and Winkle soon
learned to do nearly as well as Sharp Eyes, but their brother could
always see things in the woods before they could.

His eyes seemed to grow sharper and brighter each day, and he could
tell a turkey, a partridge or other wild bird a long way off, so that
even his father used to say:

“Sharp Eyes is the best hunter of us all. He is a fine fox!”

Not far from where these foxes lived was another family, not quite the
same kind, though. One of these foxes, named Red Tail, as he heard
Sharp Eyes tell of having caught the rooster, said one day:

“You had better look out for yourself, Sharp Eyes.”

“Why had I, Red Tail?”

“Oh, because,” was the answer, and that was all Red Tail would say just
then.

“Pooh! I s’pose he means a hunter might shoot me,” said Sharp Eyes.
“But I’m not afraid. I’m going off in the woods now and see what I can
find for dinner.”

Off went the little fox boy on another hunt. He looked all around, and
listened and smelled, and at last he saw something moving along the
ground.

“Ha! Maybe that is another rooster or a turkey,” thought Sharp Eyes.
“I’ll get that for dinner.”

Softly, softly he crept up toward the animal on the ground. Sharp Eyes
could now see it was an animal, and not a bird, and at first he thought
it was an extra large wood mouse. For the animal was of the same color,
a light gray. But when Sharp Eyes saw the big, curving bushy tail of
the creature he said:

“Ha! I know him. It is a gray squirrel! Well, they are as good as a
rooster or a wild turkey, though not as large. I’ll get him!”

Sharp Eyes crept toward the gray squirrel, but, just as the fox was
going to jump on it, something happened.

With a chatter of his teeth and a frisk of his tail the squirrel sprang
up into a tree, and from there, safely out of reach, sitting on a limb,
with his tail curled up along his back the squirrel looked at Sharp
Eyes.

“Ha! You thought you’d get me! didn’t you?” chattered the squirrel.

“Oh, I don’t know. I’m not so very hungry,” drawled Sharp Eyes,
pretending he hadn’t been fooled when the squirrel jumped away.

“Oh, yes you did! You tried to get me, but I was too quick for you――I
got away!” laughed and chattered the squirrel. “What’s your name,
little fox boy?”

“Sharp Eyes. What’s yours?”

“Oh, I am called Slicko, the jumping squirrel, and it’s because I
can jump so well that I got away from you,” answered the little gray
animal. “Haven’t you heard about me?”

“Heard about you?” asked Sharp Eyes. “What do you mean? I hear you
talking now, and I heard you scrabbling around in the leaves.”

“No, I mean, didn’t you hear about my having adventures, and being put
in a book?” asked Slicko.

“No,” answered Sharp Eyes, looking hungrily up at the squirrel, “I
didn’t.”

“Well, I _am_ in a book,” went on Slicko, “and it tells how I was
caught by some boys, and put in a cage. But I got away and came back to
the woods I love so well. But if you haven’t read the book about me, I
don’t s’pose you know Blackie, the lost cat, nor Don, the runaway dog.”

“No,” said Sharp Eyes, “I don’t know either of them. I don’t like
dogs.”

“Oh, but you’d like _Don_,” said Slicko. “He’s the nicest dog that ever
was! He’s in a book, too.”

“I don’t know anything about books,” said Sharp Eyes. “All I know about
is being hungry――that’s why I tried to catch you.”

“I’m glad you didn’t,” chattered Slicko.

“So am I,” said the fox. “I guess I can easily catch a turkey or a
mouse or a rooster. I’ve caught roosters before. But now I wouldn’t
like to catch you as I like to hear you talk, though I don’t know
anything about books.”

“Neither do I,” said Slicko. “All I know is I’m in one. And there’s a
book about Tum Tum, the jolly elephant. I don’t s’pose you know him,
either, do you?”

“Is an elephant like a wild turkey?” asked Sharp Eyes.

“I should say _not_!” laughed Slicko. “An elephant looks as if he had
two tails, but one is his trunk. Tum Tum was a jolly chap. He was in
the same circus with Mappo, the merry monkey. But excuse me, I have to
go now. I’ll see you some other time.”

“I wish you would,” said the fox boy. “I’ll promise not to catch you. I
like to hear you talk. Tell me some more about your elephant and monkey
friends.”

“I will,” promised Slicko, “and about the book I’m in, too. I had a
lot of adventures. Maybe you’ll have some, too, and have them put in a
book.”

“Oh, no! That will never happen to me!” said Sharp Eyes.

But you see how little he knew about it, for here he is in a book, and
I have a lot of adventures to tell you about him.

So Slicko, the jumping squirrel, scrambled off among the trees, and the
little fox boy went to look for something to eat.

Sharp Eyes presently caught a fat duck that had swum too far down the
brook, away from the farm, and, slinging her across his back, off to
the hollow log he trotted.

And later that day, when Sharp Eyes was telling his friend, Red Tail,
about catching the duck, Sharp Eyes said:

“I think I am getting to be a pretty good hunter, don’t you?”

“Yes, you are,” said Red Tail. “But you had better look out.”

“You said that the other day,” went on Sharp Eyes. “What do you mean?
Do you mean I’d better look out for Slicko, the squirrel?”

“Oh, no,” answered Red Tail. “But did you ever stop to think that your
coat of fur is different from those that most of us wear?”

“Why, no, I never took much notice,” said Sharp Eyes, as he looked at
himself as well as he could. “What’s the matter with my fur?”

“Nothing, except that it is very beautiful,” said Red Tail. “Now you
are going to hear something that may scare you. Though you may not know
it, you are a silver fox.”

“What’s that?” asked Sharp Eyes.

“It means your fur is the color of silver,” went on Red Tail. “That
color is very scarce, and hunters like to get a silver fox more than
any other. That means they’ll hunt you out, and try to catch you rather
than any of us, for our fur is common. But yours is silver shade, and
can be sold for a lot of money. So you want to look out.”

“Look out for what?” asked Sharp Eyes.

“For hunters,” answered Red Tail. “I’ll tell you how I happen to know.
Last year, when I was a tiny little fox, I was caught in a trap. A man
who was a trapper of wild animals up in these North Woods caught me. He
took me home to his cabin, and there I saw the skins of many foxes hung
up to dry.

“There were many like mine, but only one or two of a silver color. As I
was so small, the trapper kept me to tame me, and I stayed in his cabin
a long time. There I learned to know a little of the talk that men
hunters and trappers speak.

“Other hunters and trappers used to come to the cabin to buy furs, and
they paid more for that of a silver fox than for any other. That is
how I know your silver coat would bring a lot of money if a hunter or
a trapper caught you. So you want to be careful when you go out in the
woods.”

“Thank you, I will,” promised Sharp Eyes. “I’ll be careful. Thank you
for telling me, Red Tail.”

The two foxes talked in animal talk a little longer, and Sharp Eyes was
just going back to his hollow log when, all of a sudden, a loud clap,
like thunder, sounded in the woods.

“What’s that?” cried Sharp Eyes. “Is it going to rain?”

“No! That was the sound of a gun!” cried Red Tail. “That was a hunter’s
gun! We had better hide, Sharp Eyes! The hunters, even now, may be
after your silver fur!”

And away ran Red Tail and Sharp Eyes.




CHAPTER IV

SHARP EYES IS HURT


Sharp Eyes, the silver fox, could run very fast. So could Red Tail.
And they knew they must run fast to get away from the dogs of the
hunter. For when men go out to hunt wild animals or to trap them, dogs
generally go with the men, and though a man can not run as fast as a
fox or a deer, dogs can.

Red Tail told this to Sharp Eyes as they hurried along together. Behind
them could be heard the rumble and roar of the man’s gun, sounding like
thunder.

“Hurry, Sharp Eyes!” cried Red Tail. “Don’t let the hunter see you!”

“What will he do if he sees me?” asked the little fox boy.

“He’ll try to shoot you with his gun. That is, he will if he can not
catch you alive.”

“Why would he want to catch me alive?” asked Sharp Eyes, as he trotted
along beside the other fox. They slunk down between bushes, ran under
fallen trees, crawled beneath old logs, and even ran in brooks of
water.

“He’d like to catch you, instead of shooting you, because you are now a
small fox, and will be bigger some day,” answered Red Tail. “The bigger
you are the more fur you’ll have, and it is for your fine silver fur
that the hunter or trapper would like to get you.”

“Wouldn’t he like yours, too?” asked Sharp Eyes.

“Well, yes, I guess he’d take my fur, too, if he could get it,”
answered Red Tail. “But mine is not so nice as yours. Of course it
keeps me just as warm, and all that, but people who want fox furs seem
to like your silver color better, though why, I don’t know. You are a
rare fox, and more hunters or trappers will try to get you than would
try to get me. So be careful!”

“I will,” promised Sharp Eyes. Then he asked: “Don’t you think we can
stop running now and take a rest? I’m tired,” and indeed the little fox
boy was weary. His tongue was hanging out of his mouth and his legs
ached.

“No, we can’t stop yet,” said Red Tail. “We must run on a little more.
Then we can hide in the dark woods away from the hunter and his dogs
and take a long rest.”

So on the two foxes ran farther and farther until at last Red Tail, who
was older than Sharp Eyes, and who had been chased by dogs and hunters
before, and knew their ways, said it would be safe to rest. They lay
down on the leaves under a tree and stayed as quiet as mice. They
listened, but could not hear the barking of the dogs nor the bang of
the gun.

“I guess we got safely away,” said Red Tail, as he crept out a little
way and lapped up some water from a brook. Sharp Eyes did the same, for
they were both very thirsty from their run.

“Is it all right to go home now?” asked Sharp Eyes, when he had rested
till his tongue was no longer hot nor his legs tired.

“I’d better take a peep around and see,” answered his friend. “I know
more about hunters and dogs than you do.”

So Red Tail peeped out from behind some bushes, ready to skip back
again and hide in case he saw danger. But he saw none, and, after a
little while, he and Sharp Eyes went on to their homes, which were not
houses such as you live in, but a hole in a hollow log or a den under
the earth with some rough stones for a front door.

“Well! where have you been, Sharp Eyes?” asked his sister Winkle, as he
scrambled down inside the hollow log.

“Oh, I’ve been chased by a hunter and his dogs, and I heard his gun
fired,” answered the little fox boy.

“You did?” cried his mother, who was listening to what he said. “Oh,
Sharp Eyes, you must be careful!”

“I will. That’s what Red Tail told me.”

“And don’t go too much with that Red Tail boy, either,” said Mr. Fox.
“He is a daring sort of chap, and he might lead you into danger. Once
he went to a farmyard in broad daylight and took a chicken. He ought to
have waited until night. He is very daring.”

“Well, he was good to me,” said Sharp Eyes. “He showed me how to run
away from the hunter.”

“You must have had a terrible time,” said little Winkle.

“Oh, it was a sort of adventure,” answered Sharp Eyes.

“What’s adventure?” Twinkle, his brother, asked.

“It’s things that happen to you,” answered Sharp Eyes. “And then they
are put into a book. That’s what happened to Slicko.”

“Who’s Slicko?” asked Winkle.

“A jumping squirrel,” replied Sharp Eyes, and he told of the talk the
two had had together.

For some days after this nothing much happened to Sharp Eyes. He stayed
with his father and mother and brother and sister in their hollow log
house, going out now and then to get something to eat, or to drink
water at the brook.

“That boy of ours is going to be very smart,” said Mr. Fox to his wife
one day.

“What makes you think so?” she asked.

“Why, when we were out hunting in the woods to-day he saw a big muskrat
that I couldn’t see, and he caught it.”

“Yes, I think he has the best eyes, for seeing things to eat, of
any foxes in this wood,” said Mrs. Fox. “I only wish his fur was a
different color.”

“Why?”

“Because it is too beautiful. If it was red or brown, like yours and
mine, the hunters and trappers would not be after him so much. But he
is a silver fox, and you know how such skins are prized. There is a big
reward for a silver fox skin, Red Tail’s mother told me.”

“Yes, I suppose there is,” said Mr. Fox. “I remember hearing, when I
was a boy, that a silver skin was much sought after by hunters. I never
was colored that way myself, but I knew a fox who was a boy when I was.
He had silver fur, and one day he did not come to play with us. We
asked where he was, and his father said a hunter had shot him to get
his silver fur.”

“It’s too bad,” said Mrs. Fox. “I wish the hunters would leave us
alone. I must tell Sharp Eyes to be careful.”

Each night, now that he was big enough, Sharp Eyes went out with his
father or mother, Twinkle or Winkle sometimes going with them, to hunt
for things to eat. When they dared they went to a farm which was not
far from the North Woods where they lived.

“It is easier to get a chicken or a duck than to hunt for a wild turkey
or the wood mice,” said Mr. Fox. “We’ll eat at the farmyard if we can.”

And often they did, though sometimes the dogs barked when the foxes
came near, or the farmer and his men would come out with guns, and
the foxes would have to run away. At such times they had to hunt for
something to eat in the woods. And, if they did not find it, they would
go hungry. That was no fun.

One night, when the whole fox family had been out hunting and had been
frightened away from the farm by barking dogs, they were all very
hungry.

“I wish I had something to eat,” sighed Winkle.

“Well, we can’t have anything, so we’ll just have to wait,” said her
mother.

“Where’s Sharp Eyes?” asked Mr. Fox. “Didn’t he come back with us?”

“He said he was going back to the farm, and try to get a chicken or a
duck,” returned Twinkle. “He said he was terribly hungry. And so am I.”

“Sharp Eyes may be caught,” said Mrs. Fox. “You had better go back and
make him come with you,” she went on to Mr. Fox.

“I will,” said he, but just as he started out on the woodland path,
Sharp Eyes came running along, with a big chicken slung over his back.

“Look what I got!” he barked, as he laid it in front of his mother.

“Where did you get it?” asked Winkle.

“At that farmyard. I waited until the wind was blowing the other way,
so the dogs could not smell me coming, and then I crawled in and got
this bird.”

“It’s a wonder you weren’t caught yourself,” said his father. “You are
getting as reckless as Red Tail. You must look out for danger.”

“I did,” answered Sharp Eyes. Then they all ate the chicken he had
brought, and his mother said he was very clever.

“But you’ll not always be as lucky as that,” said Red Tail to Sharp
Eyes the next day, when the fox boy told what he had done. “Some day
you may be caught in a trap.”

“What’s a trap?” asked Sharp Eyes. “Is it like a book that Slicko the
squirrel had adventures in?”

[Illustration: “‘Look what I got!’ he barked.”]

“No, a trap is something that hurts you,” said Red Tail.

A few days after that the silver fox had a chance to see for himself,
and feel for himself, what a trap was like.

Sharp Eyes was trotting along through the woods, not far from the
farmer’s yard; and as he was looking toward it hoping he might catch a
stray duck or a rooster, all of a sudden he saw a chicken lying to one
side of the path.

“Oh, ho!” said Sharp Eyes to himself. “I’ll just get that and take it
home for lunch.”

So he crept softly up on the chicken, which did not seem to know a fox
was so near. When he was close enough, Sharp Eyes gave a jump and came
straight down on top of the fowl, making a grab for it with his teeth.

At the same time there was a sharp click, and Sharp Eyes felt a sudden
pain in one paw. It stung and ached.

“Oh!” cried the fox boy. “I’m hurt! Something has me fast by the foot!
Oh, what can it be? Did the chicken bite me?”

He tried to pull his paw loose, but could not. He was caught, and was
held fast.




CHAPTER V

SHARP EYES MEETS DON


After the first pain felt on being caught, and when he found he could
not pull his paw loose, Sharp Eyes lay quietly on the ground, partly
covering up the chicken. He did not howl, which was his way of crying
when he was hurt, though he wanted to do so very much. But foxes and
other wild animals do not make much noise in the woods, for they like
to keep quiet so no larger animals, or hunter-men with their dogs, may
know where to find them.

“Something terrible has happened to me,” thought Sharp Eyes, as once
more he tried to pull loose his paw. But he could not, and each time he
pulled the pain was worse.

“If I make too much noise,” thought Sharp Eyes, “Bruin, the bear, may
hear me and come to bite me. Or the hunters may come with their dogs,
and I could not get away.”

There were bears in the North Woods where Sharp Eyes lived, and hunters
and dogs often came to the forest.

“And, now that I am caught fast, I can’t get away if they should come
up close to me,” thought the little fox boy. “I must keep quiet and not
make too much noise, though I would like to call and ask my father or
mother to come to help me.”

Sharp Eyes whined a little from the pain, and then he tried to be brave
and not mind it.

“I wonder what it is that has caught me,” said the little fox boy to
himself. “And why didn’t the chicken flutter and try to get away when I
jumped on her? That was very funny!”

He soon saw the reason the chicken did not move. It was dead, and Sharp
Eyes knew he had not killed it.

“She must have been dead when I jumped on her,” said the little fox
boy. “And now to see what has caught me.”

He could move about a little, and, pawing with one of his feet that was
not caught, Sharp Eyes brushed the chicken to one side. Then he saw
that his left forefoot was caught between two jaws of iron.

“Oh, I’m in a trap!” exclaimed Sharp Eyes. “I never saw a trap before,
but this is just what my father said they were like. He told me to keep
out of them, but I didn’t see this one. The chicken was in the way, or
I might have noticed the trap. Oh dear! I wonder if I will ever get
loose!”

Sharp Eyes pulled some more, but the pain in his foot soon made him
stop.

“If you had only been alive you could have told me about the trap, and
then I wouldn’t have been caught in it,” said Sharp Eyes, speaking to
the dead chicken, as though it were alive.

If he had only known, the chicken was put there near the trap, partly
covering it, on purpose. It was bait for the trap, just as mousetraps
are baited with cheese. And the trap was set in the woods by a hunter
who hoped to catch a fox or some other wild animal in it.

The chicken had been killed and put near the trap, for the hunter knew
wild animals like such things to eat. And the hunter knew that if a
fox came along, the first thing it would do would be to jump for the
chicken, thinking it was alive.

Underneath the outspread wings of the chicken was the open trap, and as
soon as Sharp Eyes’ paw touched the spring, snap! shut went the jaws of
the trap, catching him fast there. It was the jaws of the trap pressing
on Sharp Eyes’ paw that hurt him.

“Oh, if I could only get away!” said the little fox boy to himself. “If
I can only get away I’ll never jump at a chicken again, without looking
first to make sure there’s no trap!”

But it was too late to think of that now. Sharp Eyes was caught, and
every time he pulled his leg it hurt him so that he soon stopped.

“Red Tail was right,” he whispered to himself. “He said something would
happen to me some day, and it has. Oh dear!”

Sharp Eyes kept quiet as long as he could, and then his paw pained him
so that he had to cry out. But he cried very softly. Then he called for
his father and mother, using fox language, of course.

But they did not answer him, for they were far away.

“Twinkle! Winkle! Can’t you come and help me out of the trap?” barked
the little fox boy, held fast, all alone in the woods, near the dead
chicken.

But neither Twinkle nor Winkle answered. They, too, were far away. They
were off hunting with their father and mother, and though they wondered
where Sharp Eyes was, they thought he was safe.

“Sharp Eyes can take care of himself,” said his mother.

“But I hope the hunters or trappers don’t get him and take his lovely,
silver fur,” said Winkle. If they could only have known what had
happened to poor Sharp Eyes they would surely have gone to help him,
wouldn’t they?

“But I _must_ get away,” thought Sharp Eyes. “If I stay in this trap
much longer the hunter will come and get me. Or his dogs will come and
bite me! Oh, I must get loose!”

So he pulled and tugged away to get out of the trap, but his foot hurt
him more and more and he had to stop.

Sharp Eyes was in such pain, and so troubled about what might happen to
him, that he did not even feel like eating some of the chicken, though
he had been hungry a little while before. Now his appetite was all gone.

The little fox did not know what to do. He called again for his father
and his mother, and for Twinkle and Winkle, but none of them came.
Then, all at once, there was a noise in the bushes, and something
seemed to be coming toward Sharp Eyes where he was caught fast in the
trap.

“Oh, I hope it’s my father or mother!” thought the fox.

But it was not. Instead, a big dog, who was kind-looking, and not
fierce and angry, burst through the bushes.

“Oh dear!” thought Sharp Eyes. “This is the hunter’s dog! Now I am
surely lost. They’ll take my silver fur. Oh, if I had only kept out of
the trap!”

[Illustration: “‘Hello, what’s the matter here?’ asked the dog.”]

Once more Sharp Eyes tried to get loose, but the pain in his leg made
him stop. He looked at the dog, and got as far away as he could. But
the trap was fast to a chain, of which one end was wound around a tree
and could not be pulled off.

“Hello, what’s the matter here?” asked the dog, who, of course, could
speak animal talk, though not exactly the same language that Sharp Eyes
and his friends used. “What’s the matter?”

“Oh, you know well enough what’s the matter,” said Sharp Eyes sadly.
“I’m caught in a trap your master set, and I suppose you and he are
coming to get me now.”

“What’s that? A trap? I don’t know anything about a trap,” answered the
dog. “And I’m sure my master never set one. He lives in a big house far
away from here. I used to live in a house where there was a nice little
girl. I liked her very much, and often I went for walks with her.
Once I took her to a park menagerie, and she fell into the tank where
Chunky, the happy hippo, lived. But Chunky lifted her out of the water
on his broad back and saved her. Chunky is a friend of mine.

“My people have taken a bungalow over on the lake off there, and we’re
staying there for a while. It’s a good way off from here, but not so
far as our real home, where we live all the time.

“To-day I wanted to have some adventures, so I trotted off from my
master’s bungalow. They don’t need me to-day, as they have all gone
visiting. So I came to the woods, but I never expected to see you. Are
you another dog? You look a little like one, only your nose is sharper
than mine, and you are not so large.”

“No, I am a fox, and my name is Sharp Eyes,” came the answer. “And I am
caught in a trap. But please don’t bite me.”

“Bite you? Why should I bite you?” asked the dog.

“Why, I thought all dogs belonged to hunters or trappers and that they
bit us foxes,” said Sharp Eyes.

“Well, I don’t,” was the reply. “My name is Don, and once I was a
runaway dog, but I ran back. I am a little like a runaway dog to-day,
but I am going to run back home to-night, as soon as I have had some
adventures in the woods. This is the start of one, I guess. I’m sorry
you are in the trap.”

“Are you, really?” asked Sharp Eyes, who had been taught that all dogs
were bad and cruel.

“Of course I am, Sharp Eyes,” answered Don. “I know what it is to be in
pain, and I can see that where your paw is caught it must hurt you.”

“Indeed it does,” answered the fox. “I’ve tried to get away but I
can’t.”

“How did you get in the trap?” asked Don.

“Oh, I didn’t look closely enough before I made a jump for this
chicken. It was right over the trap, to hide it, and now I am fast.”

“Well, maybe you can get loose,” said Don. “I’ll help you. This is what
my friend Slicko, the jumping squirrel, would call an adventure.”

“Oh, do _you_ know Slicko?” asked Sharp Eyes, and he was so surprised
that he forgot his pain for a moment.

“Of course I know Slicko,” was the answer. “I stayed two or three
nights in the same woods with Slicko.”

“Now I know who you are,” went on the fox. “I met Slicko, and we spoke
of you, though I never expected to meet you. And who is this Chunky you
talked of, and who saved your master’s little girl?”

“Chunky is a hippopotamus, or, as I call him for short, a hippo,” said
Don. “He lived in a jungle in Africa for a long time and had lots
of adventures. Then he was caught in a pit trap and brought to this
country. He was in a circus, and I met him in the park menagerie. He
knew Tum Tum, the jolly elephant, Mappo, the merry monkey, and other
friends of mine. Chunky had a book written about him. I’ve had a book
written about me, too!”

“So had Slicko,” said Sharp Eyes. “My! it seems quite fashionable to
get in a book nowadays.”

“It is fashionable,” answered Don. “Almost as fashionable as your
silver fur. That’s why you were trapped, I presume. Some hunter wants
your fur.”

“I suppose so,” said Sharp Eyes sadly. “Oh, I wish I could get out of
this trap!”

“Hark!” cried Don suddenly. “Don’t you hear something?”

“Yes, I do,” answered Sharp Eyes, listening. “But I can’t see anything,
held fast as I am.”

“I’ll look,” offered Don, peeping out between two bushes. What he saw
made him cry out in animal talk:

“Oh, it’s a man coming with a gun! I guess he’s coming to get you,
Sharp Eyes! He must have set the trap.”

“Oh dear! what shall I do?” asked Sharp Eyes.




CHAPTER VI

SHARP EYES IS CAPTURED


Don, the kind dog, as soon as he had seen the hunter coming toward the
place in the woods where the trap that had caught the fox was set, ran
back toward Sharp Eyes.

“What are you going to do?” asked Sharp Eyes.

“I am going to try to help you get loose,” was the answer. “I don’t
want to see you taken away by the hunter, and maybe kept until you grow
to be a big fox, so they can take off your silver fur. I’m going to try
to help you get loose.”

“How?” asked the fox.

“Well, I’ll sort of push you, and you can sort of pull, and maybe you
can pull your leg loose from the trap.”

“But it hurts when I pull on it,” said Sharp Eyes.

“No matter,” replied Don. “It is better to be hurt a little on the foot
than to be kept a prisoner and maybe be hurt a lot, or even killed,
when they take your silver fur. And we must be quick! The hunter will
soon be here!”

“Oh, I would like to get away!” cried Sharp Eyes.

“Then pull as hard as you can on your leg that is caught in the trap,”
said Don. “There is a way to open spring traps by stepping on them, but
I don’t know about it. If my master were here he could do it. But he
isn’t. You must help yourself and I’ll help you. Come now, pull!”

“Oh, but it hurts!” whimpered Sharp Eyes, as he pulled a little.

“No matter! It must be done!” said Don. “You pull and I’ll push you,
Sharp Eyes.”

Don, the kind dog, put his shoulder against that of Sharp Eyes. The fox
pulled on his leg as hard as he could. It hurt him very much, but the
hunter could be heard coming nearer and nearer and Sharp Eyes did not
want to be caught.

“Pull! Pull!” softly barked Don. “Are you pulling?”

“I am! I am!” answered Sharp Eyes. He felt as if his leg would come
off, and the pain in his toes was very bad. But he did not give up,
and, at last, with his pulling and Don’s pushing, out came the fox
boy’s foot from the trap. Sharp Eyes’ toes were cut, and the skin and
fur were scraped off so that he could not put that paw to the ground.

“But don’t mind about that!” barked Don. “You can run on three legs
nearly as well as on four. I’ve done it myself when I’ve cut my foot
on a sharp stone or a bit of glass. Come on, the hunter is very close!
Run!”

So Sharp Eyes ran, and Don ran with him, the fox limping on three legs.
The fox and the dog dodged in and out among the bushes and trees of the
woods, for they did not want the hunter to see them.

“There, I guess we are far enough away now,” said Don, after a bit. “Do
you know your way home, Sharp Eyes?”

“Oh, yes, thank you! Now that I am out of the trap I can easily find
it. Won’t you come home with me?”

“No, I guess not. I’m looking for adventures. Besides, if I went home
with you, I might scare your folks. They don’t like dogs. But I’m not
the hunting kind.”

“Then I’m sure they’d like you,” said Sharp Eyes.

“Well, maybe some other time I’ll come to see you. Trot along home now
and look out for traps,” barked Don.

“I will,” promised Sharp Eyes, as he limped along on three legs. The
one he had pulled from the trap hurt him very much, and was bleeding a
little.

“But I’m glad I’m loose, anyhow,” thought Sharp Eyes. “No more traps
for me!”

But you just wait and see what happened to him next.

The hunter, with his dogs and gun, came to the place where he had set
the trap and baited it with a chicken.

“Something has been here!” said the man. “The trap is sprung, but there
is nothing here now. I wonder what it was and how it got away.”

His dog smelled around the trap, and then ran off through the woods,
barking. The dog had smelled the path taken by Don and Sharp Eyes, and
was after them――on the “trail” as the hunters say.

The hunter looked at the trap more closely. He saw some bits of hair on
the jaws.

“It must have been a fox,” said the hunter. “But the hairs are of
silver color, and not red like most foxes! A silver fox! If I could
capture him it would be great! Silver fox skins are rare! I must set
another kind of trap for this fox. I wonder how he got away.”

The hunter could not guess that Don, the kind dog, had helped the
fox to get free, and was now running with him through the woods. The
hunter’s own particular hunting dog was also on the trail of the fox,
but pretty soon he came to a brook. There the fox smell stopped.

The dog barked and howled, and ran up and down the stream, but he
could not smell the fox any more, and that is the only way he had of
following――by the smell, or “scent.”

“Come on back,” said the hunter, as he followed on and saw where his
dog had stopped. “The fox has crossed running water, and the trail is
lost. I’ll set a better trap for him next time――one that will capture
him alive. It would be a pity to spoil that fine silver pelt in a
spring trap, or by shooting. Come on!”

The hunter whistled to his dog, and they went back through the woods,
giving up the chase for that day. When running away, Sharp Eyes and Don
had been cute enough to go into the running water and wade part way up
the brook.

The brook left no smell of the paws of Don or of Sharp Eyes, and the
hunter’s hound could not follow. When they can, wild animals will
always cross a stream, or wade up or down it, to lose their scent so
hunting dogs can not follow.

“Well, I’ll leave you here,” said Don to Sharp Eyes, when they had run
on through the woods for some distance, after crossing and wading in
the brook. “I’ll go and see if I can have any more adventures.”

“Wasn’t helping me one?” asked Sharp Eyes.

“Yes, it was,” answered Don. “And if ever a book is written about you,
I hope that part is put in.”

“Oh, there’ll never be a book written about _me_!” said Sharp Eyes.

But that shows how little he knew about it, doesn’t it?

“Do you think you’ll be all right?” asked Don.

“Oh, yes, thank you. I can get home all right now,” said Sharp Eyes.
“I’ll have to limp on three legs for a while, but that’s nothing.”

“It’s better than being held fast in the trap,” said the dog.

“Indeed it is!” agreed the fox.

Then Sharp Eyes hurried on until he reached his home in the hollow log.
By this time his father and mother, with Twinkle and Winkle, had come
back from the hunt. They had some partridges and wood mice, and there
was plenty for all to eat.

“Oh, my poor little Sharp Eyes!” said Mrs. Fox, when she saw him. “What
hurt you?”

“I got caught in a trap,” he answered, and he told all that had
happened, and how Don had helped him get loose.

“That dog was very kind to you,” remarked Twinkle.

“Yes, indeed he was. But you must be more careful,” said Mr. Fox
gravely. “The next time you get caught, Sharp Eyes, you may not get out
so easily. A scraped paw is nothing. You were very lucky.”

Sharp Eyes thought so himself, and the next few days, as he limped
around through the woods, he kept a careful watch for traps or other
signs of danger. But he saw none.

In about a week his foot was well enough for him to use again in
walking or running, but he still limped a little. It was not quite all
healed.

One morning, very early, Sharp Eyes got up before any of the others,
and started out of the hollow log house.

“I’m going through the woods and down by that farmhouse,” said the fox
to himself. “Maybe I can find a fat duck for breakfast.”

Sharp Eyes did not go near the place where he had been caught in the
trap. He did not like to remember it, and he thought perhaps there
might be another set there to catch him. So he went about a mile out of
his way, and then circled around toward the farm.

Before he reached it, and while still in the woods, the fox heard a
noise which sounded like:

“Cock-a-doodle-do!”

“Ha! I know what that is!” said Sharp Eyes. “That’s a rooster! The same
sort of bird I once thought was a wild turkey. Well, I am pretty good
at catching things now, and maybe I can catch that rooster. I’m going
to try!”

Carefully, Sharp Eyes crept through the woods. The sound of the
rooster’s crowing sounded louder now, and it seemed to stay in the same
place.

“He doesn’t hear me coming, or see me or smell me,” thought Sharp Eyes.
“Maybe I can get close enough up to him to grab him. But I must be
careful of traps!”

On and on through the woods crept Sharp Eyes softly. He came to a
little place where the trees had been cut down, and in the center of
this clearing was what seemed to be a box. The crowing of the rooster
came from inside this box.

“Oh, ho!” thought Sharp Eyes. “This is a henhouse――the same kind I went
into down at that farm, and brought out a fat duck. There is a rooster
in this little henhouse, and I’ll go in and get him. Then I’ll have a
fine dinner!”

“Cock-a-doodle-do!” crowed the rooster.

“I’m coming to get you!” laughed Sharp Eyes to himself.

Nearer and nearer he went. He could look right in the box, now, and see
the rooster. The crowing fowl did not come out.

“But I’ll soon fetch you out!” said Sharp Eyes. He looked all about on
the ground. He could see no traps in sight. The fox thought it was all
right.

Softly he went up to the box. He went inside. At the far end he could
see the rooster, which was tied fast by one leg. That was the reason it
could not get out.

“Ah, ha! Now I have you!” thought Sharp Eyes.

He made a spring, inside the box, after the fowl. And just then
something happened. There was a clicking noise behind the fox, and, all
of a sudden, it got dark.
